---
authors:
    - spixx
date: 2023-08-25
categories:
    - general
    - thoughts
    - opensource
    - archive
---

# A knife in the back #

I am a big proponent of the open source software philosophy but since I am no 
developer my contributions to open source comes in the form of usage, testing 
and promotion. In my mind it is one of many ways to combat the restrictive 
Enterprise solutions (which usually leans heavily on OSS anyway). There is no 
inherent wrong with closed source but it tends to end up with shifting the 
focus from making good products and move it towards protecting the business 
model of the producing entity.

<!-- more -->

## Freedom! ##

There is something special about the willingness to produce something and 
allowing others to use, improve and evolve a product. Rather then using all our
powers to lock something down to allow the free expression of creativity and 
brilliance of the many. To quote a favourite author of mine;

> chose again

Rather then allowing stagnation to fester to protect a failing way of thinking 
allow for others to improve it. That being said, the more extreme licenses are 
also damaging for OSS.

## MIT for the win! ##

In my humble opinion the best license to use for projects is one that allows 
the option of also closing the source down and not contribute to the main 
project. Not because it makes it better from the open source standpoint but 
rather because it is more free. On the other hand it might be better to force 
companies to contribute since very few actually donate or push improvements to 
the code base. Amazon being a bad example of building on top of open source but 
contributing very little.

To further extend my thoughts on open source I have this idea that municipality 
should have to require any software delivery to be open source (within reason). 
Mostly to not feed the dragons that live on delivery of often subpar software. 
Since the usage of public funds should benefit more then the few. Since this 
would also allow for better scrutiny of applications and most likely create 
more benefits for the projects themselves to. Also open source does not mean 
freeâ€¦
